# Deploy hEdge in a docker environment
### 1.	Pre-requisites
a.  Install docker \
b.  Configure docker-bridge \
c.  Configure size of log files (optional) \
d.  Login to docker registry \
e.  Check if whiptail is installed \
f.  Check if jq is installed \
g.  Configure /etc/hosts

#### a.	Install docker
Follow docker install instructions by selecting your host OS from https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/

#### b.	Configure docker-bridge:
1.  Stop docker: `sudo service docker stop` or `sudo systemctl stop docker` 
2.	Create daemon.json at /etc/docker/daemon.json with content:
  ```
    {
        "bip": "10.104.0.1/24",
        "fixed-cidr": "10.104.0.0/24",
        "default-address-pools":
        [
            { "base":"10.104.1.0/16","size":24 }
        ]
    }
  ```
3.	Start docker: `sudo systemctl start docker` or `sudo service docker start`
4.	Make sure docker0 bridge IP is 10.104.0.x using the 'ifconfig' command

#### c.	Configure size of log-files (optional):
To set the size of log files generated by docker containers:
1.	Stop docker service by running `sudo service docker stop` or `sudo systemctl stop docker`
2.	Update the daemon.json file at /etc/docker/daemon.json 
  ```
    {
        "bip": "10.104.0.1/24",
        "fixed-cidr": "10.104.0.0/24",
        "default-address-pools":
        [
            { "base":"10.104.1.0/16","size":24 }
        ],
        "log-driver":"json-file",
        "log-opts": {"max-size":"30m", "max-file":"3"}
    }
  ```
3.	Start docker service by running `sudo systemctl start docker` or `sudo service docker start`.

#### d. Login to docker registry hub.docker.com (Optional)
You must have a username and password with appropriate permission to access docker registry hub.docker.com

Login to the docker registry hub.docker.com to be able to pull docker images in the following steps
```
docker login 
```

Enter your username and password for the docker registry.

You should get a "Login succeeded" message if your authentication is successful.        

#### e. Check if whiptail is installed.
Run the following command:
```
command -v whiptail >/dev/null 2>&1 && echo "Installed" || echo "Not installed"
```
If the output says "Not Installed" then follow relevant install instructions for your platform - https://github.com/domdfcoding/whiptail?tab=readme-ov-file#installation

#### f. Check if jq is installed
Run the following command:
```
command -v jq >/dev/null 2>&1 && echo "Installed" || echo "Not installed"
```
If the output says "Not Installed" then follow relevant install instructions for your platform - https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/

#### g. Configure /etc/hosts
1. Open `/etc/hosts` file in an editor of choice
2. Remove or comment out all entries for 127.0.0.1 and 127.0.1.1
  ```
  ## 127.0.0.1 localhost
  ```
3. Add the following as a new line
  ```
  127.0.0.1 hedge-secret-bootstrapper edgex-security-bootstrapper hedge-init edgex-security-secretstore-setup edgex-core-common-config-bootstrapper edgex-core-consul edgex-vault edgex-redis edgex-support-notifications edgex-core-metadata hedge-admin hedge-device-extensions hedge-meta-sync hedge-event-publisher hedge-remediate hedge-nats-proxy edgex-mqtt-broker edgex-security-proxy-setup edgex-nats-server edgex-nginx hedge-elasticsearch hedge-victoria-metrics hedge-db hedge-user-app-mgmt hedge-ml-management hedge-export hedge-event hedge-ui-server hedge-grafana hedge-init hedge-node-red edgex-kuiper edgex-core-command hedge-data-enrichment hedge-metadata-notifier hedge-ml-edge-agent hedge-ml-broker hedge-ml-pred-anomaly-autoencoder hedge-ml-pred-classification-randomforest hedge-ml-pred-timeseries-multivariate-deepvar hedge-ml-pred-regression-lightgbm hedge-device-virtual
  ```

### 2. Copy and extract Hedge installers

a. You can either copy the installer from https://github.com/bmchelix/hedge/package or https://github.com/bmchelix/hedge/hedge-deployment/docker
b. In case you copied the installer from package, extract the installer file: `tar -zxvf hedge-core-docker.tgz` if you are installing to the core(management services), otherwise extract hedge-node-docker.tgz to install to the node machine


Please refer to hEdge deployment architecture which shows it as a 2-tier deployment. The installer scripts refer to edge as node and the management service layer as core.
We support 2 deployment configurations:
1. node(edge) and core(management) services are deployed on different services
2. Both edge and core services deployed on same machine. This is typical for a POC or QA setup

The deployment is driven by user specifying which of the above configurations we want deployed. 
Command parameter to make will drive that configuration. This parameter is env (env=node, env=core, env=core_node)


### 3. Core server deployment
Core server is required for both options of deployment.

Configure deployment scripts 
a. **Update `.env` file with your environment specific details:** \

```
CURRENT_HEDGE_NODE_SERVER_NAME=vm-xxx-xxxxxx
CURRENT_HEDGE_NODE_SERVER_DOMAIN_NAME=.mydomain.com
CURRENT_HEDGE_NODE_SERVER_IP=X.X.X.X
``` 
Replace vm-xxx-xxxxxx with the public hostname of the current machine. \
Replace .mydomain.com with the domainname of the current machine \
Replace X.X.X.X with IP address of the current machine.

The above is required irrespective of the configuration we use for deployment.


b. **Update `.env-core` file with your environment specific details:** \
```
```
Replace all `TODO_` items with the specific tokens and values.

You are all set for the core server. To deploy, run the below command from hedge-deplpoyment/docker directory.
If running as combined core-node setup
>
> make run env=core_node
>

If running as combined core server setup
>
> make run env=core
>

You can view the management UI now using:
http://<yourserver>:8000

Unless you have provided a password for admin during installation, the default password is admin.
It is recommended to change this password for production environment.

### 3. Node server deployment
Make sure that we copy the installer or hedge-deployment/docker directory on the node machine and other pre-requisites are met

**Update .env to refer to remote CORE**
The below additional configuration change in .env is required for the node server deployment

<br>

```
REMOTE_HEDGE_CORE_SERVER_NAME=vm-yyy-yyyyyy
REMOTE_HEDGE_CORE_DOMAIN_NAME=.mycoredomain.com
REMOTE_HEDGE_CORE_SERVER_IP=Y.Y.Y.Y
```
Replace vm-yyy-yyyyyy with the public hostname of the remote Hedge Core machine. \
Replace .mycoredomain.com with the domain name of the remote Hedge Core machine \
Replace Y.Y.Y.Y with IP address of the remote Hedge Core machine

<br>

**Copy hEdge secret files from the CORE deployment**
The node server needs to connect to mqtt broker running on core, it also needs to connect to consul running on core. 
Additional, nats server established secure websocket based connection, so the following files that are generated 
from the installation step on core server are to be copied to the node server before installation can start
Here is the list of files on core server to node server. On both servers, the files are in /tmp folder.

/tmp/.mqttencpwd
/tmp/.cnslenctok
/tmp/nats.crt.pem
/tmp/nats.key.pem

Now run the below command from hedge-deployment/docker directory on node server
>
> make run env=node
>

If you want to start a specific service, here is the command
>
> make run env=<core_node/core/node> <service-name>
>

### 4. Stop the Hedge stack
Bring down the docker stack
> make down

<br>

#### NOTE: Use the below commands with caution as it deletes all data.

Bring down and wipe clean the hEdge stack (removes all containers, volumes, networks etc). \
To avoid accidental runs, a confirmation comes up expecting a "YES" or "NO" response to proceed.

> make force-clean
>

To start the new stack again, run this command: \

To start a CORE+NODE setup with only mandatory services
> `make run env=core_node`

To start a NODE only setup with only mandatory services
> `make run env=node`


\
**[Optional]** By default, only the mandatory hedge services are installed. If you need to install the optional services and run as CORE, then run:
In case of standard deplpoyment, env setting takes care of automatically setting the profile values as per below details.
However, the below is provided as reference in case you need to extend this

> `make run [env=core] profile=<profiles>`

PROFILE parameter accepts one or more comma separated profiles: `all,virtual,grafana,es,vm`
* **all**: installs all optional services (this doesn't require any additional profile names)
* **virtual**: installs Virtual device service
* **es**: installs OpenSearch
* **vm**: installs Victoria Metrics

**NOTE: Make sure CURRENT_HEDGE_NODE_TYPE is appropriately set in .env** \
**Also make sure to run above command first on CORE and then on NODE**


Remove all docker images from the target machine
```
docker system prune -a
docker images -q | xargs docker rmi -f >/dev/null
```

### 5. Instructions to set up a NODE
Run this command to fetch instructions and secrets for setting up a corresponding Helix Edge NODE

> make get-node-secrets

### 6. Login token for Service Health and configuration management (Consul)
Run this command to get the login token required to login to Consul - for Service Health and Service Configuration management

> make get-consul-token

### 7. Update secrets post-installation
If you need to update any secrets or passwords after the installation is complete, run this command and follow the prompts and instructions

> make update-secrets

**NOTE: Use this with caution as changing critical secrets/passwords may lead to unexpected behavior**

### 8. Troubleshooting
#### * Check logs
> docker logs -f <container-name>


#### * Container specific commands:
    docker container stop $(docker container ls -aq)  	-> To stop all running containers
    docker container rm $(docker container ls -aq)		-> To remove all the stopped containers
    docker rm -f $(docker ps --all -q -f status=dead)   	-> For Deleting all dead containers  		
    docker rm -f $(docker ps --all -q -f status=exited) 	-> For deleting all exited container 
#### * Docker image specific commands:
    docker rmi -f $(docker images -q)	-> To forcefully remove all docker images
    docker images -q			-> To obtain all the images ids
    docker rmi <imageid>    		-> To remove single docker image
#### * Docker volume specific commands:
	docker volume create --name <volume_name> -> to create a new volume
	docker volume ls			  -> list all docker volumes in the system
	docker inspect volume <volume_name>	  -> to get more information about the volume
	docker volume rm <volume_name>		  -> to remove a volume from the system. Containers must be stopped and removed before removing the volume
	docker volume prune			  -> will remove all the volumes not references by any contianers
#### * Docker network specific commands:
	docker network create --name		  -> to create a new docker network
	docker netowrk ls			  -> list all the docker networks
	docker network inspect <network_name>	  -> to get more information about the network
	docker network rm <network_name>	  -> to remove a network.
	docker network prune			  -> to remove all unused networks
	docker network connect <network_name> <container_name>    -> connects the <container_name> to the <network_name> network
	docker network disconnect <network_name> <container_name> -> disconnects <container_name> from the <network_name> network
